The ASD database provides energy level data for atoms and ions. For more
information consult [Introduction to and Contents of the
ASD](/PhysRefData/ASD/Html/contents.html).

* * * * *

  Energy Levels Search Form
---------------------------

The ASD Levels Search Form, referred to as the Levels Form, provides
access to the energy level data. Submitting the Levels with information
specified by the user generates a level list for a specified spectrum.

At a minimum, the user must enter a [spectrum](#LEVELS_SPECTRUM) of
interest (e.g., Fe I) and then click "Retrieve Data".

The Levels Form prompts the user for the following information:

-   [Spectrum](#LEVELS_SPECTRUM) of interest (e.g., Fe I).\
    \
-   Energy level units (selected from the pulldown menu). \
    Energy levels may be displayed in one of the following units:
    -   cm^−1^ (reciprocal centimeter or wavenumber), the default unit
    -   eV (electron Volt)
    -   Rydberg

    \
-   Choice of viewing the output as an HTML table, ASCII table, a [CSV
    or tab-delimited data file](#CSV) (selected from the pulldown
    menu).\
    \
-   Choice of viewing (scrollable) data all at once, or one page at a
    time (selected from the pulldown menu).\
    \
-   Page size.\
    \
-   Choice of energy ordering of the output, i.e., term ordered or
    energy ordered.\
    \
-   Choice of the output information for levels.\
    \
-   Choice of the output of the relevant available bibliographic
    references.\
     For most ions, bibliographic references are available and can be
    retrieved by selecting the "Bibliographic references" checkbox.\
    \
-   Choice of the output of the level splitting, i.e., the difference
    between two adjacent energy levels (different levels may be
    "adjacent" with different ordering of output).\
    \
-   Electron temperature ***T~e~*** for calculation of partition
    function.\
    \

For levels output, the default is to display the following data:

-   Principal Configuration
-   Principal Term
-   Level
-   Uncertainty
-   *J*
-   Landé *g-factor*
-   Leading Percentages
-   Bibliographic References

To suppress display of any of the information listed above, the
corresponding checkbox can be unclicked.\

[Additional search criteria](#LEVEL_CRITERIA) are available for all ions
and can be reached by pressing the "Set Additional Criteria" button.\

* * * * *

[![Go to top of page](/Images/top.gif "Go to top of page")](#Top)   Selecting a Spectrum for Levels Searches
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To specify an element on the Levels Form, simply enter the chemical
symbol for the element (e.g., Fe or fe). To indicate a particular
spectrum (ionization stage), enter (after a space) either a Roman
numeral or an Arabic numeral after the element symbol (NOTE:
Fe I = Fe0+, Fe II = Fe1+, etc.). Alternatively, a spectrum may be
specified by the name of its isoelectronic sequence (e.g.,
Si Li-like = Si XII, Si Na-like = Si IV). The user can also specify a
particular isotope by including an atomic mass number before the element
symbol, e.g., 198Hg I. Isotopes of hydrogen can also be specified by
using their alternate element symbols, D I or T I. The symbol H I will
produce the same results as 1H I. For levels searches, output can only
be generated for one spectrum at a time.

#### *Examples of Spectrum Notation*

  ------------------------ ------------
  **To specify**           **Enter**
  Neutral sodium           Na I
  Neutral sodium           Na 0
  Neutral iron             fe i
  Lithium-like magnesium   Mg x
  Lithium-like magnesium   mg Li-like
  Singly-ionized ^11^B     11B II
  ------------------------ ------------

* * * * *

[![Go to top of page](/Images/top.gif "Go to top of page")](#Top)   Setting Additional Criteria (from the Levels Form)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Clicking the "Set Additional Criteria" button on the Levels Form causes
a list of additional search criteria to be displayed. These options are
set to default values. Therefore, it is not mandatory that the options
be set before using the database.

Before selecting the button "Set Additional Criteria," the user must
specify a spectrum on the Levels Form.

The following search criteria may be specified:

-   Upper bound of energy (in the energy units selected on the Levels
    Form).
-   Parity. The default is to retrieve levels of both parities. The user
    may specify either odd or even parity.
-   Configuration. The search criteria are used to create a list of
    possible configurations for the chosen. The default is that no
    configuration bound is specified. The pulldown menu can be used to
    select a configuration bound of interest. Alternatively, the text
    box can be used to type in the initial or ending portion of a
    configuration of interest.\
-   term. The search criteria are used to create a list of possible
    configurations for the chosen ion. The default is that no term bound
    is specified. The pulldown menu can be used to select a term bound
    of interest. Alternatively, the text box can be used to type the
    initial or ending portion of a term of interest. 
-   *J* value

If the spectrum on the Levels Form is changed, then clicking on the
"Update Criteria" button on the Levels Form will update the list of
additional search criteria.

 

* * * * *

[![Go to top of page](/Images/top.gif "Go to top of page")](#Top)   Output for Levels \
(by table column heading)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   [**Configuration**](#LOUTCONFIG)
    -   [**Levels Tabulated With Leading Percentages**](#LOUTCWLP)
    -   [**Levels Tabulated Without Leading Percentages**](#LOUTCWOLP)
    -   [**Limits**](#LOUTLIMITS)
-   [**Term**](#LOUTTERM)
    -   [**Naming of Levels**](#LOUTTWLP)
-   [***J*:**](#LOUTJ) Total Electronic Angular-Momentum Quantum Number
-   [**Level**](#LOUTLEVEL)
-   [**Uncertainty**](#LOUTUNC)
-   [**Landé *g*:**](#LOUTLANG) Experimental Magnetic Landé *g* Factor
-   [**Leading Percentages**](#LOUTLEADP)
    -   [**First Percentage**](#LOUTLEADPFIRST)
    -   [**Second Percentage from Same Eigenvector as First
        Percentage**](#LOUTLEADPSECOND1)
    -   [**Second Percentage for Leading Component of Eigenvector in
        Alternate Coupling Scheme**](#LOUTLEADPSECOND2)
-   [**Bibliographic References**](#LOUTBIBREF)
-   [**Partition Function**](#LOUTLEPARTFUNCT)

* * * * *

[![Go to top of page](/Images/top.gif "Go to top of page")](#Top)  Configuration
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For most of the headings, we discuss separately the cases of levels
tabulated with and without leading percentages.\
\

#### *Levels Tabulated With Leading Percentages*

The electronic configuration for the largest component in the calculated
eigenvector for the level is normally given in this column. (The
configuration is for the largest component to within the estimated
uncertainty of the calculation; see "[Term](#LOUTTERM).") Any ancestor
terms or *J* values appropriate to this component are normally included
with the configuration, as in the examples in the [Introduction to
Atomic
Spectroscopy](https://www.nist.gov/pml/atomic-spectroscopy-different-coupling-schemes).

A question mark "?" after the configuration indicates that the
assignment of the observed level to the calculated eigenvector is
uncertain. This particular notation for an uncertain assignment usually
implies that at least one other plausible assignment of the level would
give a different configuration or set of parent terms for the leading
component.

The configuration is listed only once for a set of levels grouped into a
term. All notations given with the configuration, including any question
marks, apply to each level of such a term.

In cases of strong configuration interaction, more than half the
percentage composition of a level may be due to components from a
configuration different from that for the leading component; such an
example makes it clear that the configuration given in the first column
does not necessarily represent a configuration assignment of the level.
A particular configuration may appear in the first column for more
levels than the pure configuration is allowed. In such cases of strong
configuration interaction, the label used in the Configuration column
may correspond not to the largest, but to a minor component of the
eigenvector composition. For such heavily mixed levels, the
configuration label has little or no physical meaning and is used in the
database for bookkeeping purposes only. The configuration labels of such
mixed levels are usually assigned so as to satisfy the requirement of
uniqueness of the combination of the combination of the configuration,
term, and *J* values for each level.

#### *Levels Tabulated Without Leading Percentages*

The reliability and indeed the meaning of configuration assignments made
without supporting calculations vary greatly. Even in the most complex
spectra, there may be some levels or groups of levels belonging largely
to a single configuration. The observed structure, magnetic *g* values,
intensities, isotope shifts, and other data can in such cases lead to
unambiguous assignments representing high purity. (Examples are the
lower levels of most 4*f ^N^*6*s*^2^, 4*f ^N^*6*s*, and 4*f ^N^*
configurations in the rare earths.) Quite often, however, the levels to
be interpreted comprise a dense structure to which several
configurations are known or expected to contribute. Some preliminary
configuration assignments may be possible and useful in such cases, but
such assignments for the bulk of the levels are often best regarded as
tentative until confirmed by calculations. In many cases, meaningful
single-configuration assignments do not exist.

We have tried to indicate doubtful features of the interpretations in
the discussions of particular spectra in our compilations and, to some
extent, in the tables. A question mark following the configuration
indicates explicitly that the assignment is doubtful. A doubtful
ancestor term is indicated by a question mark after the term symbol
within parentheses.

In some cases, the configuration for a level may be known, although the
appropriate ancestor terms (or even the preferred order of coupling of
the electrons) cannot be determined without calculations. Such a
configuration assignment (together with the final term and *J* value)
without full ancestry does not in general serve as a unique name for the
level.

#### *Limits*

The wavenumber corresponding to the principal ionization energy is
entered in proper sequence under "Level." The corresponding entry in the
first column is the symbol for the next higher spectrum of the element,
followed by the configuration and term designations and the *J* value
for the ground level of this next ion. The word "Limit" appears in the
"Term" column (the levels of the higher ion being limits for series in
the lower spectrum). If the known levels of the lower ion (or atom)
extend above the principal limit, one or more of the higher limits are
also given at appropriate positions.

[![Go to top of page](/Images/top.gif "Go to top of page")](#Top)  Term
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

#### *Naming of Levels, Grouping of Levels into Terms, Other Conventions*

A term symbol in the second column belongs to the eigenvector component
whose configuration and ancestry appear in the first column. The
assignment of a set of levels to a term is indicated by grouping the
levels and by listing the configuration and term symbol for only the
first (lowest) level of the group. The presence of both a configuration
with all necessary ancestor terms in the first column and a term symbol
in the second column guarantees that each of the levels grouped with the
term is uniquely designated by the symbols in the first two columns,
together with the *J* value; i.e., such levels have names. This naming
convention also applies to isolated levels not grouped into terms. The
use of the (*J*~l~, *J*~2~) [term
symbols](https://www.nist.gov/pml/atomic-spectroscopy-different-coupling-schemes)
in this connection should be noticed; a *J*~1~,*J*~2~ configuration
notation in the first column is indicated as a name for the associated
level(s) only if a (*J*~1~, *J*~2~) symbol appears in the second column.

In our various NIST compilations we have not followed a single set of
guidelines in retaining or forming terms (by grouping levels). Probably
the strictest criteria were applied to the rare-earth spectra, where we
usually retained or formed a term if half or more of the candidate
levels for the term were known and had leading components approximately
45 % or larger. The 45 % requirement was sometimes lowered significantly
for levels having leading components sufficiently larger than the
corresponding second components. Additional levels of lower purity
(\~30 % to 45 %) were retained (or assigned) to help complete a
multilevel term provided certain conditions were met. Thus the component
for an assigned term name is normally the leading component in the
eigenvector, and is also as large a percentage of the particular name as
occurs in the eigenvector of any other level (known or not) with the
same *J* value. We also tried to avoid a name for which the
configuration contributes less to the total composition of the level
than some other configuration. These are minimal requirements for
avoiding completely inappropriate names.

One can assure more generally satisfactory names by disallowing any name
representing significantly less than 50 % eigenvector purity; and in the
case of a leading percentage near 50 %, by requiring that the second
percentage be significantly smaller (alternate designation clearly less
appropriate), and that no other eigenvector should have a comparable
leading percentage (\~50 %) for the same designation. The weaker
criteria for the grouping and naming of levels outlined above were
adopted to allow practically any significant term structure within a
single configuration to be exhibited in the tables.

In cases of strong configuration interaction, it sometimes happens that
assignment to a particular term type remains appropriate for a level or
level group for which no meaningful configuration assignment is
possible. Such term names may usually be deduced by examination of the
two leading eigenvector percentages. In some cases of this type, we have
entered the appropriate term name under "Term," along with a letter
indicating the situation (see, for example, the "*y* ^2^D" term of
Al I).

Most of the calculated leading percentages for levels in question as to
naming are probably uncertain by several percent. In order to facilitate
term assignments, we have allowed a relatively few small deviations (by
up to \~4 %) from the above requirements on naming. These deviations are
probably within the uncertainties of the calculations.

Many of the resulting terms are incomplete, in the sense that no
observed level is listed for one or more of the possible *J* values of
the term. A level "missing" from such a term may not have been found in
the analysis; alternatively, it may be that no theoretical eigenvector
is appropriate for the corresponding designation, even under the relaxed
criteria described above. The first case is distinguished in the tables
by printing the *J* value of the level, and leaving a blank space in the
"Level" column. The leading percentages for such a missing level are
given if available. In the second case, the best candidate levels for
the missing designation are usually known and lie in the same region as
the levels assigned to the term.

Levels belonging to a term most of whose levels have not been found may
nevertheless be grouped if the term appears to be an important one or
lies in a region where most terms are more complete. The printed *J*
values of the missing levels explicitly indicate possible extensions of
the analysis. No predicted term is shown. However, unless at least one
level is known, and we emphasize that missing predicted levels are
generally *not* indicated in these tables: no term symbols or *J* values
are listed for missing levels having low eigenvector purities or
belonging to terms the levels of which are not grouped (for whatever
reason). The user is urged to consult the references to published
calculations for additional predicted levels.

A level with the leading percentage \>45 % from a single-level term
(singlet, *S* term, etc.) is usually so named (shown as a term) if the
second percentage is significantly smaller, and if the other conditions
outlined above are met. Isolated levels (those remaining after the
formation of all terms) are named according to similar conditions.

Some levels of *f ^N^* and *d^N^* configurations have large eigenvector
components from two or more terms of the same *LS* type. Since the
resultant lowering of the purities has no physical significance, we have
retained the names of such levels having adequate total purity of a
particular *LS* type and labeled them with the Nielson-Koster index
number for the term of the leading component. (Of course, the
corresponding group-theoretical numbers have little meaning for such a
low-purity term.) Similar considerations have been applied in
designating parent (or grandparent) terms arising from *f ^N^*
configurations.

A question mark (?) after a term designation indicates that the
assignment of the observed level(s) to the calculated eigenvector(s) is
uncertain.

*J*: Total Electronic Angular-Momentum Quantum Number
-----------------------------------------------------

The total angular momentum, *J*, is known for the vast preponderance of
energy levels. An uncertain *J* value for a level is usually known to
within two or three possible values; in such cases all the possible *J*
values, separated by *'or'*, are listed. Two or more comma-separated *J*
values may be listed at a single energy position to denote unresolved
levels.

[![Go to top of page](/Images/top.gif "Go to top of page")](#Top)  Level
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The levels are normally given as they are stored in the database, in
units of cm^−1^, with respect to the ground level at zero cm^−1^. In
HTML output, odd-parity levels are shown in italics. The odd parity is
also indicated in the HTML output by a small circle symbol (°), or in
the ASCII output by an asterisk (\*) at the end of the term label.

Levels within terms are listed in order of position. Terms are listed in
order of lowest (known) levels, with ungrouped levels being treated as
separate terms. The *J* value and blank space indicating a missing level
of a term are given in the order of the corresponding calculated level
if such a value is available.

A question mark (?) following a level always indicates that the level
may not be real.

For levels having a configuration label, the question mark after the
energy also implies that the correlation of the calculated eigenvector
to the experimental level is questionable. Sometimes, instead of the
question mark, we use the dagger symbol '†' after the level value. This
notation is used mainly for questionably assigned levels included in
terms. An uncertain assignment of an isolated level may be indicated by
'†', but only if the configuration in the first column would be
unchanged by any possible reassignment of the level (no question mark in
the first column).

The values of certain levels in some spectra are followed by "+*x*," and
such notations may be extended to "+*y*," "+*z*," etc., for additional
sets of levels of a particular spectrum. The relative positions of the
levels within such a system are accurate within experimental
uncertainties, but no experimental connection between this system and
the other levels of the spectrum has been made; the error of the assumed
connection (estimated or calculated) is represented by "+*x*."

The letter "*a*" following a level value indicates substantial
autoionization broadening. The decision whether to add this notation
after a particular level was more qualitative than quantitative, and no
consistent criteria were used for different spectra. Levels given with
an "*a*" for a particular spectrum may have autoionization rates varying
by several orders of magnitude. No indication of observed autoionization
broadening was given for many spectra. In no case should a level lying
above the principal ionization energy but given without an "*a*" be
assumed to have a small autoionization rate.

Some level energies are in square brackets "[ ]" and some are in
parentheses "( )". Square brackets indicate the energies determined by
interpolation, extrapolation, or other semi-empirical procedure relying
on some known experimental values. Parentheses indicate the energies
determined from *ab-initio* calculation or by other means not involving
evaluated experimental data. In ASD, they mostly occur for level data
taken from transition probability tables, for which experimental values
could not be found in NIST energy level compilations. Theoretical data
may also be given for hydrogen-like and helium-like spectra where the
accuracy of quantum-electrodynamic calculations often exceeds that of
experimental observations.

[![Go to top of page](/Images/top.gif "Go to top of page")](#Top)  Uncertainty
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Uncertainty of the level value is given a column next to level values,
if it is available in ASD, provided that the corresponding checkbox is
checked in the input form. If no explicit information about the
uncertainty is available, it will be blank in the output. In such cases,
the number of significant figures in the level value gives an
approximate estimate of the uncertainty. The ***uncertainty of the level
positions*** in units of the last decimal place is not constant; it may
vary by an order of magnitude even within a single analysis. If no
uncertainty value is available in ASD, it is usually safe to assume that
the probable error is between 2.5 and \~25 units in the last place.
About 90 % of data in ASD satisfies this assumption. A better estimate
of the uncertainty in a particular case may sometimes be obtained by
consulting the original paper(s) or the line list.

The most accurate representation of the energy levels is in the default
units of cm^−1^, as they are stored in ASD. Conversion to other units
(eV or Rydberg) involves an additional uncertainty of the conversion
factor. These factors, as well as their uncertainties, are taken from
the latest [CODATA recommended conversion
factors](https://physics.nist.gov/cuu/Constants/energy.html). Before ASD
version 5.5 of October 2017, uncertainties of these conversion factors
were not taken into account in the displayed data. Starting with v.5.5,
these uncertainties are combined in quadrature with the uncertainties of
the stored data, and the output quantities are rounded off according to
the combined uncertainties. Thus, the accuracy of the output energies is
somewhat degraded when the units of eV or Rydberg are used.

All uncertainties given in ASD are meant to be on the level of one
standard deviation.

[![Go to top of page](/Images/top.gif "Go to top of page")](#Top)  Landé *g*: Experimental Magnetic Landé *g* Factor
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These (dimensionless) magnetic splitting factors are usually obtained
from measurements of weak-field Zeeman patterns. The relation between
the uncertainty and the number of decimal places given differs according
to the observer and the particular value; the range covered by this
relation is similar to that for the level values (see above). More
specific comments are made on the *g* values for some spectra.

A colon following a *g* value indicates that it may be significantly
less accurate than values given to the same number of decimal places but
not so marked. Values followed by a question mark are tentative, usually
being based on assumptions made to allow reduction of the Zeeman
patterns.

[![Go to top of page](/Images/top.gif "Go to top of page")](#Top)  Leading Percentages
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This column normally gives one or two percentages from the calculated
eigenvector of the level. The space for the second percentage (on the
right) is used in either of two ways, as explained below. All
percentages are rounded off to the nearest percent, and the "%" symbol
is omitted.

Any use of this column in a manner not outlined below is explained in
the tables for particular spectra as given in our compilations.

#### *First Percentages*

If the level has an assigned name, the first percentage is for this
"name" component. A first percentage followed by a term symbol
represents the largest component in the eigenvector of a level having no
assigned term name or named differently for bookkeeping purposes. The
configuration and ancestry for this component are shown under
"Configuration."

#### *Second Percentage from Same Eigenvector as First Percentage*

If two percentages are listed without the word "or " between them, the
second percentage is the largest of the remaining percentages from the
same eigenvector as the first percentage. If the second component
belongs to the same configuration as the first, we have in some cases
omitted the configuration after the second percentage and given only the
parent terms (or parent levels where appropriate) and final term for the
second component. For some spectra, a second component having both
configuration and all parent terms unchanged from the first component is
given with only the final term. Electron subshells common to different
configurations for the first and second percentages may be omitted from
the second configuration. Term notations common to all second
percentages listed for the levels of a term may be given only once.

The coupling scheme for a second eigenvector component belonging to a
different configuration may be different from the scheme for the first
component; this should not be confused with case (see below), where the
second listed percentage is the *leading*percentage in a different
coupling scheme.

Since many authors list only the largest percentage for at least some
levels, the absence of a second percentage in this compilation does not
necessarily mean that it is less than the smallest percentage used here
(0.5 %, given as 1 %).

The relative signs of the two eigenvector components are not given.
These are often not given in the original publications. Furthermore,
these signs depend on certain conventions, no one set of which has been
accepted by all authors. The original articles can be consulted for
(possibly) more complete eigenvectors with signs.

#### *Second Percentage for Leading Component of Eigenvector in Alternate Coupling Scheme*

Where the eigenvectors from a calculation are available in more than one
coupling scheme, we often give in the second percentage space the
leading percentage from the eigenvector calculated in an alternate
scheme. This use of the second percentage space is indicated by the word
"or" between the two percentages, since each is a leading percentage.
Competitively high coupling purities for a configuration in different
coupling schemes were, of course, regarded as an argument for giving
leading percentages in alternate schemes, as was the case in which a
second scheme for the configuration in question is the preferred scheme
for a related configuration (two configurations connected by a strong
transition array, etc.). We have favored *LS* coupling as a second
scheme in cases where another scheme was used for naming the levels.

It should be noted that the leading component in a second scheme is not
necessarily a *name*for the level in that scheme; in cases of low
purity, the eigenvectors of two (or more) levels of the same *J* value
may have the same leading component.

For some configurations, the alternate coupling schemes are both *LS*
coupling, but with the electrons coupled differently in the two cases.
In this case it is usually possible to set up terms in either scheme
(see Eu I 4*f* ^7^5*d*6*p*, for example).

Bibliographic References
------------------------

For information on viewing references, see the [Locating references in
the ASD Bibliography](/PhysRefData/ASD/Html/help.html#VIEWREFS) section
of the "Help" file.

[![Go to top of page](/Images/top.gif "Go to top of page")](#Top)  Partition Function
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the electron temperature ***T~e~*** is entered in the entry page, a
partition function ***Z*** defined as:\

*Z* = Σ*~i~(g~i~*·exp(-*E~i~/T~e~*))

is printed at the bottom of the output page. Here ***i*** is the level
number, ***g~i~*** is the statistical weight of the atomic level, and
***E~i~*** is the energy.

[![Go to top of page](/Images/top.gif "Go to top of page")](#Top)  Creating an output for importing into a spreadsheet
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Two options are available from the **Format Output** pull-down menu for
creating an output in a format suitable for importing into a
spreadsheet: CSV (comma-separated ASCII file) or tab-delimited ASCII
file. Both options produce output in the user's browser window, which
needs to be saved on the local computer by using the browser's interface
options and opened with a spreadsheet software. For importing data into
Excel, the most convenient format is CSV. If the output is saved in a
file with a .csv extension, some browsers (e.g., Chrome) even allow the
user to open it directly from the browser. Users of the OpenOffice
software may prefer the tab-delimited format, as it conveniently allows
setting the format of all columns enclosed in double quotes as "text."
This is required, for example, for the *J*-values, which can be
half-integers stored as strings, e.g., "1/2." If such columns are not
set as text, the spreadsheet software will most likely automatically
convert them to dates. Even for columns containing only numbers, text
format is needed to preserve the number of decimal places, which
indicates an implicit uncertainty of value. For this reason, the
CSV-format output contains formulas instead of plain values. After
importing such a file into a spreadsheet, the user should "select all
cells" (in Excel, this can be done by clicking on the small triangle in
the upper left corner of the spreadsheet), copy the selection, and paste
it back as values.
